README.md, before:

# Dr Spec

A simple DSL and test runner DragonRuby Game Toolkit (DRGTK).
It try to mimic rspec.

[New to writing tests? Check out this tutorial introducing the concept in DRGTK!](https://www.dragonriders.community/recipes/testing)

🚧 **dr_spec is a work in progress! It works, but the interfaces may change.** 🚧

# Basic example
```ruby


# you can use string with any case or spaces for spec and it block
#
spec "Numeric Comparison matchers" do
  it "be greater than" do |args, assert|
    expect(10).to be_greater_than 5
  end
  it "be_greater_than_or_equal_to" do |args, assert|
    expect(10).to be_greater_than_or_equal_to 10
  end
  it "be_less_than" do |args, assert|
    expect(5).to be_less_than 10
  end
  it "be_less_than_or_equal_to" do |args, assert|
    expect(5).to be_less_than_or_equal_to 5
  end
end

# you can use symbol as spec and it desc
#
spec :boolean_matchers do
  it "be_truthy" do |args, assert|
    expect(true).to be_truthy
  end
  it :be_falsy do |args, assert|
    expect(false).to be_falsy
  end
end

# You can use context before and after block
#
context "context_3" do
  before do
    @b = 5
  end
  it "expectation_4" do |args, assert|
    puts "I'm the num 4"
    puts @a = @a * 5 + @b
    assert.equal! @a, 25, "nope 25"
  end
  after do |args, assert|
    @b = 6
    puts "after 4"
    @a = 4 * 5 + @b
    assert.equal! @a, 26, "nope 25"
  end
end

```

# Matchers

**!🚧 ! NOTE check the implementation file as the doc is not 100% align with matchers
names yet**

dr_spec try to replicate some commonly used standard matchers in RSpec:

## Equality

`eq`: Verifies that two values are equal.
<!--
`eql`: Verifies that two values are equal, taking type into account.
## Numeric Comparison:
-->

1. be >, be >=: Verifies that a value is greater (or greater or equal) than
another.
1. be <, be <=: Verifies that a value is less (or less or equal) than another.

## Boolean

1. be_truthy: Verifies that a value evaluates to true in a boolean context.
1. be_falsey: Verifies that a value evaluates to false in a boolean context.

## Type

1. be_a(type) or be_an(type): Verifies that the object is an instance of the
specified type.
1. be_instance_of(type): Verifies that the object is an exact instance of the
specified type.

## Collection Content

1. include(element): Verifies that an element is included in a collection.
1. match_array(array): Verifies that the collection is equivalent to the specified
array.

## String

1. start_with(string): Verifies that a string starts with the specified text.
1. end_with(string): Verifies that a string ends with the specified text.
1. include(string): Verifies that a string contains the specified text.


# Outputs

There is on this project a will to make a very fast and readable output

<img src="image.png" alt="some output" width="300">


# Improve de doc

If you want to help on the doc of this project.
you can use grip to preview your markdown.

```
  pip install grip

```

```
  grip chemin/vers/votre/fichier.md

```


## Thanks

This project was strongly inspired by
https://github.com/DragonRidersUnite/dragon_test

See
https://github.com/kfischer-okarin/roguelike-tutorial-2021/tree/main/game/tests
and
https://github.com/kfischer-okarin/sludge-n-cinder/tree/main/game/tests
for good complement

This project is pretty new, so if you want to improve the doc or add other test
helper. Feel free to open an issue and make a PR it will be apreciate.

Commit message:

first sandi_meter metrics. add metrics section to readme

README.md, after:

# Dr Spec

A simple DSL and test runner DragonRuby Game Toolkit (DRGTK).
It try to mimic rspec.

[New to writing tests? Check out this tutorial introducing the concept in DRGTK!](https://www.dragonriders.community/recipes/testing)

🚧 **dr_spec is a work in progress! It works, but the interfaces may change.** 🚧

# Basic example
```ruby


# you can use string with any case or spaces for spec and it block
#
spec "Numeric Comparison matchers" do
  it "be greater than" do |args, assert|
    expect(10).to be_greater_than 5
  end
  it "be_greater_than_or_equal_to" do |args, assert|
    expect(10).to be_greater_than_or_equal_to 10
  end
  it "be_less_than" do |args, assert|
    expect(5).to be_less_than 10
  end
  it "be_less_than_or_equal_to" do |args, assert|
    expect(5).to be_less_than_or_equal_to 5
  end
end

# you can use symbol as spec and it desc
#
spec :boolean_matchers do
  it "be_truthy" do |args, assert|
    expect(true).to be_truthy
  end
  it :be_falsy do |args, assert|
    expect(false).to be_falsy
  end
end

# You can use context before and after block
#
context "context_3" do
  before do
    @b = 5
  end
  it "expectation_4" do |args, assert|
    puts "I'm the num 4"
    puts @a = @a * 5 + @b
    assert.equal! @a, 25, "nope 25"
  end
  after do |args, assert|
    @b = 6
    puts "after 4"
    @a = 4 * 5 + @b
    assert.equal! @a, 26, "nope 25"
  end
end

```

# Matchers

**!🚧 ! NOTE check the implementation file as the doc is not 100% align with matchers
names yet**

dr_spec try to replicate some commonly used standard matchers in RSpec:

## Equality

`eq`: Verifies that two values are equal.
<!--
`eql`: Verifies that two values are equal, taking type into account.
## Numeric Comparison:
-->

1. be >, be >=: Verifies that a value is greater (or greater or equal) than
another.
1. be <, be <=: Verifies that a value is less (or less or equal) than another.

## Boolean

1. be_truthy: Verifies that a value evaluates to true in a boolean context.
1. be_falsey: Verifies that a value evaluates to false in a boolean context.

## Type

1. be_a(type) or be_an(type): Verifies that the object is an instance of the
specified type.
1. be_instance_of(type): Verifies that the object is an exact instance of the
specified type.

## Collection Content

1. include(element): Verifies that an element is included in a collection.
1. match_array(array): Verifies that the collection is equivalent to the specified
array.

## String

1. start_with(string): Verifies that a string starts with the specified text.
1. end_with(string): Verifies that a string ends with the specified text.
1. include(string): Verifies that a string contains the specified text.


# Outputs

There is on this project a will to make a very fast and readable output

<img src="image.png" alt="some output" width="300">


# Improve de doc

If you want to help on the doc of this project.
you can use grip to preview your markdown.

```
  pip install grip

```

```
  grip chemin/vers/votre/fichier.md

```

# Metrics

This project use ![sandi_meter ](https://github.com/makaroni4/sandi_meter)

after `bundle install` the gem
use this command
```
sandi_meter -p lib -g -o metrics
# or
bundle exec sandi_meter -p lib -g -o metrics
```

For this project the rule is to always be at 100% metrics.
Of course when we introduce new metrics it can take some time to rich 100%
But once it's done. No regression.

This can be consider as an extrem choice but after 16 years of ruby,
This is definitly what save my week-ends and save my sport time so ...
it's open-source you're free to fork.

## Thanks

This project was strongly inspired by
https://github.com/DragonRidersUnite/dragon_test

See
https://github.com/kfischer-okarin/roguelike-tutorial-2021/tree/main/game/tests
and
https://github.com/kfischer-okarin/sludge-n-cinder/tree/main/game/tests
for good complement

This project is pretty new, so if you want to improve the doc or add other test
helper. Feel free to open an issue and make a PR it will be apreciate.
